**The code in this Github repo aims to provide a standard costing tool for fusion power plants based on IAEA 2001 and GenIV 2007 cost accounts, entailing Magnetic Fusion Energy, Magneto Inertial Fusion and Inertial Fusion Energy.**  

*Background*: \
This repo is a modified version of https://github.com/Woodruff-Scientific-Ltd/ARPAE-PyFECONS, which is an open source public release to document the general approach and data used in some fusion reactor costing projects by Woodruff Scientific Ltd funded by ARPA-E. Caution: the upstream (original) repo was released as-is with no plans for support, and there are known limitations and various levels of approximations in it that persist in this present forked version. You should not use this code for any serious work without understanding all of it and improving at least some of it for your applications. (Commercial versions of this software have a number of fixes and more detailed analysis relative to this open-source version.) Search https://github.com/gwhammett/ARPAE-PyFECONS/blob/main/MFE/PyCosting_ARPA_E_MFE.ipynb for "??" to find some of the known places that need further work. (I have only made changes to the MFE directory so far.)

**How to run this code:**

This Github repo contains a folder for each base case, and one for the benchmark cases. Each folder contains the main python costing code in a .ipynb file, the template text for each cost category in the 'Originals' folder, and other files required for the latex document to compile. To generate a report:

1. Fork your own copy of this github repo.  (Don't bother trying to create a branch, overleaf only works with a main branch.)
2. Overleaf setup and usage:
    1. Create an Overleaf.com document that is synced with your github fork of this repo.  To avoid possible confusion, make sure that in the Overleaf "Menu" (upper left corner), the Settings section says the "Main document" is the desired one (for me, MFE/Costing_ARPA-E_MFE_Modified.tex).
    2. In Overleaf, there are folders for each costing case. Select one, inside there are 'Originals', 'Modified', 'Costing_ARPA-E_x_Modified.tex', 'Costing_ARPA-E_x_Originals.tex' and others. To compile a report from a past run of the code, compile 'Costing_ARPA-E_x_Modified.tex', which uses info in the Modified folder.
    3. To see the template form of the report (before specific values are inserted for variables) compile 'Costing_ARPA-E_x_Originals.tex', which uses info in the Originals folder. To edit text, edit files in the 'Originals' .tex files corresponding to the cost category you would like to edit, in the case folder you are working on. (Edits made to files in the 'Modified' folder would be overwritten when the code is run.)  If you edit files in 'Originals' in Overleaf, afterwards you will need to go to Overleaf Menu, Sync, Github, and 'Push Overleaf changes to github' to save them.  You will then need to rerun the MFE/MFE/PyCosting_ARPA_E_MFE.ipynb in colab to generate new files in the Modified folder.
3. Initial setup only:  Create a GitHub PAT for your repo and put it in a file Colab-private/ARPAE-PyFECONS-PAT.txt in your google drive.  (A PAT is a Personal Access Token, essentially a long password.  Keep this PAT confidential, as it gives write access to your GitHub repo.  This will be used by the python costing code to write results back to github, where it will be read by overleaf.com to make the final pdf report.)
4. Go to the main python notebook in one of the github subdirectories, like [MFE/PyCosting_ARPA_E_MFE.ipynb](MFE/PyCosting_ARPA_E_MFE.ipynb) <br> (I have focussed only on the MFE version so far), and click on the "Open in Colab" icon/link at the beginning to open it in https://colab.research.google.com. \
(Alternatively, you can upload the code notebook .ipynb file from github to colab.  In google colab, go to file -> upload notebook -> Github, search for your repo using the url, and select a code from a MFE, IFE, etc. directory).) Currently, running from google colab is recommended. If you decide to run the code locally, git handling code and file locations may be different, depending on your OS and environment.
5. Edit the first code cell of the .ipynb code to set some parameters which point to your github repo.
6. Enter other inputs in the \*.ipynb code if desired, and run all cells. (Or if this is a repeat run, in colab do Runtime -> "Restart Ssession and run all".) This will overwrite all of the files in the 'Modified' subdirectory, by substituting values for variables in the 'Original' template *.tex files.  It will then push the results (the new versions in the 'Modified' subdirectory) back to your github repo.
7. If you edited the \*.ipynb code in colab, then to save this file, in colab do "File -> Save a copy in GitHub".
8. Go to your overleaf document, and in Menu, Sync, Github, do a 'Pull GitHub changes into Overleaf'.
9. Process the corresponding tex file (Costing_ARPA-E_x_Modified.tex in this example) to generate an updated pdf report.
10. To edit the text in the final report:
    1. Edit the 'originals' .tex files corresponding to the cost category you would like to edit, in the case folder you are working on.
    2. In the OverLeaf menu, go to 'Github' on the left tab, and 'push'.
    3. Rerun the code (in colab do 'Runtime/Restart session and run all'), and repeat steps 8-9.
